Friends, the battle in the micro SUV segment of India has
now reached a new level.   On
one hand, Hyundai's tech loaded XTR 2026
is back with its futuristic look and on the other hand, our desi
muscular Tata PC facelift is
back to compete with everyone in its new avatar.
If your budget is between Rs 6 lakh to Rs 10
lakh and you are looking for a great SUV,
then today we will give you a
deep comparison of these two vehicles.   We will
measure dimensions, engine, safety, features and every small detail so that your
money can be invested in the right place.
So let's get started.  So let us first
compare their physical sizes.   That means let's
talk about dimensions.
First of all, if you look at the length,
you get a length of 3830 mm extra.  Whereas the
punch is a little longer.  In this you get the
length of the punch which is 3876 mm.
And if you look at the width,
you get a width of 2723 mm extra.   The
Punch comes with a width of 1742 mm.
The more width you have, the
better it will be for you.  Because the width
increases, you
get better shoulder room in the car.  So somewhere there
is a little more punch.  If you
look at the height, you get the height of the exterior as
1643 mm.  There is a little less punch.
Here you get a height of 1615 mm.  If
you look at the wheelbase of the Xster, it measures
2450 mm, whereas the Punch has a
wheelbase of 2445 mm.  Legroom
is almost similar in both.
Talking about ground clearance, the Punch wins here
because it gives you a
ground clearance of 193 mm.  Whereas
in extra you get 185 mm
ground clearance.  Be it village roads or
bad roads, the Punch will pass through without any tension.  The
petrol variant of the Xtra
offers 391 litres of boot space.
Whereas in CNG you get 225 litres
of boot space.  The petrol variant of the Punch
offers 366 litres of boot space.
Whereas in the CNG variant you will get 210
liters of boot space.  So the boot space is almost the
same for both the cars.  For just a
little extra,
you get a little more boot space in the petrol variant.
Now,
twin cylinder technology is used in both the vehicles.
This means you get the CNG tank below the boot space.
Due to which you are
getting good boot space inside both the vehicles.
Now let's take a look at
what we find under the hood of the car.  That is,
which engines are available.  The Hyundai Xer comes with a
1.2L four-cylinder naturally
aspirated Kappa petrol engine.  It produces
82 bhp of power and 114 Nm of torque.
In its petrol variant you
get the option of five speed manual automatic.
If you choose the CNG variant of Hyundai, the
1.2 L engine
will produce 68 bhp of power and 96
Nm of torque.  This engine is considered
best for giving you extreme smoothness and silence cabin.
But if you
want real driving fun then Tata PCH has
gone to the next level.  In this you get two petrol
engines.  1.2 L naturally
aspirated petrol engine that produces
87 bhp of power and 115 Nm of
torque.  This engine
comes with a five-speed manual and automatic gearbox.  The
second engine option you get in it is a
1.2 L turbo petrol engine.  It
produces 118 bhp of power and 170 Nm
of massive torque.  This engine
comes with a six-speed manual gearbox.
It becomes a rocket when overtaking on the highway.
Apart from this, the
1.2 L engine available in the CNG variant produces
72 bhp of power and 103 Nm of torque.
So, in terms of power and performance, there is no match
for Punch.  In this segment, if
you want engine options and strong power,
then you can buy Tata Pach and be worry-free.
Now let's talk about the exterior
look of the car.  Look at the Tata PCH F facelift, the
model now looks cleaner and more polished than before.
It
also has a touch of EV-inspired design.  But its boxy and rugged
character is still intact which gives it a proper
tough mini SUV vibe.  On the
other hand, the Honda Xtra has a more
new age, funky and youthful look.  Despite being small,
it carries its bold SUV
personality well.
What are the common features found in the exteriors of both the vehicles?  If you look from outside, you will
find many things common in both the cars.  Like auto fold adjustable
ORVI, rear wiper, defogger, sharpin
antenna, automatic headlamp, front disc
brake, roof rail, rear parking sensor,
LED DRL.  Let's see which
car offers more premium features from outside.  The
Tata Puch now gets proper LED
headlights.  Whereas the Exter
still gets halogen projector headlights.  The
Punch
gets LED front fog lights with cornering function and
halogen fog lights at the rear.
Both these things are missing in Exeter.  If we talk about alloy wheels, then
Punch wins here.
With its larger 16-inch alloy wheels, the
Xter only gets 15-inch alloy
wheels.  The design of both the
alloy wheels is quite good.  In the Punch,
you get connected LED
taillights as per the trend.  Whereas in Extra
you get only normal split LED tail light.
Both the cars have electric
sunroofs inside.  But the sunroof on the Punch is
voice controlled.  Meaning
you get a voice command controlled sunroof
inside the Punch.  There is a small sunroof
inside both but at least according to them the
company offers you an electric sunroof inside this car.
You get range sensing wifi in the Punch,
which you do
n't get in the Xtra.  This was about the exterior.
Now let's talk about the interior.   If you
sit inside, both have common features.
Like auto AC, cruise control, push
start button and wireless charging.  All these
common features are available.  But
where is the real difference?  We get some exclusive features in Punch Face Lift.
Like
inside it we get a 10.25 inch touch screen.
Android Auto, Apple's
with Play.  360° camera and blind view monitor
which is best for parking and in traffic.
Express Cooling feature, Multi
Drive Modes, Ecocity Sport,
New Premium Steering Wheel with Eliminated Logo are
some of the exclusive features of Hyundai XTR.
Inside it, you get a company
fitted desk camera which is
very important at the time of an accident.
You get an air purifier inside it.
Premium leather red seats are available.
In punch you get fabric ones.
Inside the HDX, you
get an 8-inch infotainment screen.  With Android Auto, Apple Car Play.
Inside the Tata PCH, you
get a 7-inch digital instrument cluster.
If you look at the extras,
you get a 4-inch TFT display.
It comes with a mix of digital instrument cluster
plus MID which
is normally available in all the cars.  Inside the Tata Puch,
you get armrests for the rear seats.
Whereas if you look at the Xer,
you do not get any arm rest there.
Rear
AC vents are available inside both the cars.  With Type C
charging port.  You also
get Type C charging port on the front.
Wireless charging is also available inside both the vehicles.
If you look at the central console, it is
almost the same in both the cars.
But somewhere you
get more of a premium vibe inside the Tata Puch.
Both the vehicles
also have the option of automatic gearbox.  Apart from this, if
you look at the AC controls etc., then
somewhere you will find the Tata Punch quite premium.
Comes in touch type.  Like Tata
uses inside all the vehicles.  However,
some touch type ones are available.  Piano
black finish type and pure screen type are
available.  And if you
look at the extra controls etc., you will not
find the old school type ones anywhere.  But
overall the work of both is the same.  So
you can choose whatever you like according to you.
So overall, if you look at it interior wise,
both the cars have very
good interiors.  Almost both the
cars are getting the same interior wise.  The
interior comes in white colour as the
Hyundai XR was launched in 2026 so its
interior is quite premium.
You get a central arm rest in the front of Tata PC.
If you look at Hyundai XTR,
you will find arm rest only for the driver.
So somewhere there is
some cost cutting going on here with the Hyundai XTR.
Overall, if
you compare both the cars interior wise, then it is your
personal choice as to which car's
interior you like more.  Both the other
cars come with auto dimming
IRVM.  Both the vehicles do
not come with electric adjustable seats.
Comes with manual adjustable seat.  The
option of height adjustable driver seat is also available in both the vehicles.
Steering mounted controls are available inside both the vehicles.
You get cruise control in both the cars.
Both vehicles also come with paddle shifters.
If you look at Hyundai,
you get a six speaker sound
system there.  Rather, inside the Tata Puch,
you get an eight-speaker sound system.
Rest, you can tell us in the comments
which car's interior look you liked the most.
Now let us come to the most important point i.e.
safety.  The platform of Tata PC
is made of solid steel and it has
also received a full five star safety rating from BCAP.
It also comes with top-tier features like six airbags,
standard ABS with EBD, ESP™,
PPMS, traction control, and hill descent
control.
In Vex you get six air bags as
standard, hill climbing assist, ESP etc. as
standard features.  And the
platform of Hyundai XR is the same as that of Grand i10 Nios.
Whose crash test rating
is still pending.  So
Tata PCH clearly scores on build quality.  And
friends, when it comes to safety, car
insurance plays the biggest role.
Along with a good five-star rated car, you
also need a solid comprehensive insurance policy.  You can
easily compare by visiting trusted platforms like PolicyBazaar.
There you get the best plans from top tyre insurance companies like Ek, ICIS, Lambar
and HDFC Ago.
Choosing insurance from the right company can
save you lakhs of rupees in case of an accident or damage.  So do
not compromise on car insurance at all.  First
compare and then decide which
insurance you want to take.  So brothers,
what is the final word?  Which car should you get
?  See if 90% of your driving is
in city traffic.  You want a super silent
four cylinder engine.  Need a good boot
space and also need unique features like a desk camera.
Hyundai
is the practical family car for you.  But friends,
before buying any vehicle, it
is very important to see its sales report.  We are giving the sales figures
because it directly
shows how much demand there is for which car in the market
and which car people trust
more.  If we look at the sales report of February 2026,
Tata PCH had set the market on
fire.  Its total sales have been
18,748
units and this Tata PCH Flift is among the
top three best selling cars in India.  On the
other hand,
only 4200 units of Honda EXTR have been sold.  From the sales report
you get to know
what is in high demand in the market.  Which
vehicle should you trust more?  Now
look, both of these are such brands which
are available in the market in good percentage.  One is giving you premium features.  On
the other hand, Hyundai's trusted
name is available.  It is important to compare both the vehicles
because competition in the market is
created only when both the
vehicles are available in the market.  Sales data doesn't lie.
If you want an SUV with a
strong road presence and the
power of a turbo engine.  It has a
great ground clearance of 193 mm for villages or rough roads
and gives a five star safety rating for your family.
So the Tata PCH F Facelift
2026 is a clear winner today and is
absolutely value for money.
Which of these two micro SUVs did you
like more?  Please share your opinion in the comment box
and if you liked the video even a little bit
or found it inspiring, then do
not forget to like the video and subscribe to the channel.   See you
in the next video.  Till then
drive safe, Jai Hind.